[ Music ]
>> Hi there.
This is Robert Phoenix, and
welcome to another edition
of The Eleventh House.
And today we're going to
be getting into the sign
of Capricorn which is
a lot more mysterious
than you might believe
and know about.
We're going to get into
not just the sign itself.
We're going to get
into the origins
and the roots of Capricorn.
We're going to talk a lot
about Pluto and Capricorn,
because that's where
we are right now.
Pluto is at nine degrees.
Capricorn is doing a square
dance with Uranus and Aries
and that's been taking
place for the last two years
and will continue to take
place over the course
of the next 18 months
to two years.
And it's a pretty important
aspect in astrology,
but we're not going to focus on
that so much, but we're going
to really get into
Capricorn today.
We're going to look at
Capricornian personalities.
We're going to look at Pluto
and Capricorn through history,
and we're going to try
to find some clues.
And we're going to try to
source out just exactly who
or what Capricorn might be.
So let's get into this right
away without any further ado.
So, when I started to research
Capricorn, what I was attempting
to do was I was attempting
to get into kind
of the astro-archeology
of the sign itself.
It's a fascinating sign.
It's pretty misunderstood.
It's associated with
the planet Saturn.
And one of the characters that
shows up very early in this sort
of pantheon of Capricornian
archetypes is Enki.
And Enki goes all the way back
to the Sumerian creation story,
the epic of Gilgamesh.
And, of course, that tale is
retold through the Akkadian
and the Babylonian culture
and the Phoenician culture,
and he actually shows up
with two separate names.
Right now we'll call him Enki.
He also goes by the name of Ea
which is a really interesting
name, particularly since we live
on the planet Earth, which
basically means "Ea's place."
So Enki means "Lord of the
Earth," which would translate,
obviously, to Ea which would be
Lord of the Earth or Ea's place
in Akkadia and Babylonia.
And here's where we get
the Capricornian imagery
and reference.
Enki is described as
having scales like a fish
and the body of a goat.
And I'm going to show
you in the next couple
of slides the original
depiction of Capricorn.
He looks like he's
part goat and part fish
or part goat and part dolphin.
One of the early, early people
in the Merovingian line,
Merovee, he's also described
as being born of a woman
and a sea bull or a sea goat.
So there's another kind
of Capricornian reference
in history to the personage.
So Enki is described as
having scales like a fish
and the body of a goat.
Now here's where it also takes
a really interesting turn.
In Syria, there's a temple
and it's known as Ugarit.
And there Enki is
known as El, E-L.
And the Phoenicians made
the connection between El
and the planet Saturn.
There's all kinds of places and
directions we can go with that
like Elohim and electricity
and a lot other interesting
el prefix words.
So in essence Enki,
Ea, El are Saturn.
And Enki is the early
manifestation
of Capricorn and the sea goat.
And we get the word
"elite" from El.
And when we think of
Capricorn, and especially Pluto
and Capricorn, and
when you'll see some
of these images I'll bring
up a little bit later,
the word "elite" is
actually fairly appropriate.
Let's bring up a bigger image
of Enki so you can see him.
By the way, I think pointed
hats are coming back.
I think the small hats,
I think they're over.
It's the pointed hats
with the space antenna.
I think they're making
a comeback here soon.
But you can see down
here there's a goat,
and we can also perhaps
infer a fish scales,
and here's fish coming out of
probably the Euphrates or one
of the rivers in the
Fertile Crescent,
and there's Enki
doing his thing.
He's, looks like he's
hypnotizing fishes.
But anyway, there he is in all
of his glory, his bearded glory.
And he has a really
interesting relationship
with his brother, Enlil.
And if you look at
the two of them,
they kind of represent these two
distinct poles of consciousness.
Enki is, he is the
father of beer.
He creates beer.
He's like the god of beer.
He also really likes music
and he likes sex as well.
In fact, he, I think he has an
affair or two with, at least one
with his daughter, which
is sort of, you know,
par-for-the-course
mythology, but also,
I believe with earth
women, as well.
So, he likes sex.
He likes beer.
He likes music -- sex and
drugs and rock and roll.
There's Enki.
And Ea is, he's kind of
the stiff board, you know.
Enki is sort of running
the operation on earth
and he's falling in
love with creation.
He's falling in love
with humans.
And Ea thinks he's doing
a fairly lousy job.
And eventually, Ea will step in
and wipe out Samaria and most
of the Fertile Crescent,
and that's where we get one
of the flood myths, the
antediluvian flood myths,
coming from that
part of the world.
So we have Ea as
being very strict
and very discipline-oriented.
And then we have Enki who
is actually very fun-loving
and jovial and beer-drinking.
And if you look at the
two of them in terms
of their definition, well, Enki
doesn't seem that Capricornian.
In fact, he actually
seems more Sagittarian,
whereas Enlil seems a
lot more Capricornian.
He actually fits the bill of
being more Capricorn and yet,
they have this sort
of diametrically
opposed personality.
It doesn't necessarily match
up with their astrological
assignation.
So, you know, maybe
what we're looking
at today is perhaps even
redefining Jupiter-Sagittarius
and Saturn and Capricorn.
Now, there are two other figures
historically that represent Enki
and Enlil fairly I would
say closely, and, of course,
they are Lucifer and Yahweh,
or Lucifer and Jehovah.
And Lucifer is very
much like Enki.
He's got the same reputation.
He's the light-bringer.
He's the, he's the guy that
falls in love with creation.
And Yahweh plays the heavy.
Yahweh is the guy that is
the bad father, you know,
he's like the bad father
and Enki's the good father.
You know, Enlil is -- sorry
-- Yahweh is the good cop and,
I said the bad cop and
Lucifer is the good cop.
So they have this
dance going on.
It's very, very similar.
And there could be this
correlation between the two,
not just mythologically but
in terms of their personae.
And again, you know, when
we associate the planets
with Lucifer/Satan and
Yahweh/Jehovah or Jove,
what we have again is we have
Saturn and we have Jupiter,
but they're transposed.
Jupiter and Sagittarius is the
sign that should be jovial,
it should be positive, it
should be nature-loving,
enjoys a good beer
like Hamlet --
I'm sorry, not Hamlet but
Falstaff from Shakespeare --
and Saturn and Capricorn is much
more dour; much, much harder,
much more disciplinarian.
So there's a strange
juxtaposition going
on in the heavens.
But there's another facet
to, especially to Enlil,
that we also have to take
into account because the sign
after Capricorn is Aquarius.
And if Enki is Capricorn,
then perhaps,
perhaps Enlil could be Aquarius,
because Aquarius
is the water-bearer
and what does Enlil do?
Enlil floods the
Fertile Crescent.
He brings the water
and basically destroys
that epic of history.
So we have this sort of
miscegenation of myth
and astrology and personae
and archetype all flowing
through these two individuals,
very pivotal individuals.
And if you go throughout
creation myths all
around the planet, you'll
see brothers or twins showing
up again and again and again.
And Enki, obviously, here is a
very important figure in terms
of not just what happened
in the epic of Gilgamesh
and the Fertile Crescent but
also in terms of, you know,
where we are with understanding
a particular aspect
of astrology.
So let's move on
to the next slide.
Here's another image
of Capricorn.
We have the goat and then
we have the fish tail
which is representative of
the half goat and half fish.
And here's a slightly
more modern version.
This is Eliphas Levi,
and this is Baphomet.
And here we have the
image of the goat again
and it is, well, it's unisex.
It's, this is how duality
is sort of resolved here.
We have this sort of unisex,
almost transexualized version
of the goat with female breasts
and probably male genitalia.
And then we have
the image of what is
above is below and so forth.
We have the two moons, the dark
and light crescent,
again duality.
And this image has become quite
popular in modern culture,
especially in terms
of heavy-metal music.
But we also see representations
in the 20th century
outside of occult circles
with Baphomet.
The famous curse of
the goat of Mendes
with the Chicago Cubs has
plagued them since the 1900s.
It's been along time
since the Cubs have gone
to the World Series
because they kicked a guy
out who brought his
goat into the stadium,
and he put a curse on the team.
And, of course, more
recently on 9/11,
George Bush was reading
a story about a goat
in the elementary school
in Florida when he was told
about the about the Twin Towers.
Here we have right
around 1517, 1518,
this is the last time before
the 1700s, so we're in Pluto
and Capricorn now, the
1700s right around the time
of the American Revolution
was the last time Pluto was
in Capricorn.
But I wanted to go back one more
cycle in Pluto and Capricorn
and see what was happening,
and there's actually
quite a bit happening.
This was around 1517, 1518.
Pluto goes into Capricorn
in 1516 exactly.
It's the year where Thomas
Moore's "Utopia" is released.
We're going to talk about
that on another show.
It's a very important book.
That pertains to Aquarius,
but we're into Capricorn.
So what's happening
in the 1500s is,
you have all these
principalities
in Europe basically going
around the world exploring
and conquering native culture.
This is the time
of colonization.
It's happening in
Spain, the Philippines --
I'm sorry, in Mexico, the
Philippines, South America.
All over the planet,
Western Europe is busy trying
to find the new world
and plunder the territory
of the new world.
And in some ways, this does
represent Pluto and Capricorn.
This is the oligarchy as
it was back in the 1500s,
going around the world,
and asserting its might,
asserting its will,
manifest destiny.
These are very difficult,
very hard times to live
in if you are an
indigenous person.
You're about ready to lose
pretty much everything
that you'd built
and worked towards.
This is only one
scene from that era.
There are plenty more.
What's also interesting
during that time is that's
when the West is making a
number of journeys to China.
And Kublai Khan, I believe,
was still in power then,
if I'm not mistaken.
So the whole consciousness
around China and what China had
to offer started to
infiltrate the Western psyche,
Western culture and
Western principalities.
So China rises in the early
days of Pluto and Capricorn.
Now unfortunately, because
there is colonization
and there is this Western elite
hegemony, we have the beginnings
of slave trade during Pluto
and Capricorn as well.
And this is an absolutely
tragic moment in human history
and it begins right around 1520.
And here we have a scene
depicting slave trade.
And again, it happens
with Pluto and Capricorn,
and we have this top-down sort
of structure pushing downward
to the lower classes and putting
them in indentured servitude.
The lower classes at that time
in Europe were actually in kind
of a different place than
then indigenous cultures
around the planet.
We're going to get
into this next slide,
and I'll tell you why.
Here we have the Black Plague,
and the Black Plague
happens during Pluto
and Capricorn as well.
And this is a really fascinating
period in human history
because Western Europe was
coming out of this period
where you had all of these
really skilled laborers.
They'd been working
on the cathedrals.
They knew how to do masonry.
They know how to
do stained glass.
They were getting very
interested in geometry.
This was a fairly educated
and well-versed society
of craftspeople who
were forming guilds.
They were starting to form
their own communities in,
I believe it was in Portugal,
there was a group
called the Communaros.
And they were starting to create
their own sorts of community
and civilization away
from what was being doled
out by the royal families and
elites who were all scrambling
at that time to have,
for a great land grab
in Western Europe.
But not just a land grab
but also an ideology grab.
There's all kinds
of deals happening
with the Vatican at that time.
You also have the Reformation.
Martin Luther is working on
his books during this period
of Pluto and Capricorn.
So at that time royalty was
trying to align themselves
with whoever was going to
have the religious might.
So you have this fusion of the
early stages of governance,
you know, bonding
with at that time,
which was even more powerful
than these early stages
of governance which
was the Catholic church
or the Reformed Catholic Church,
which was where Luther
was taking it.
But the "peasants"
or the common people,
they weren't really
completely under the bridle
of the noble families
of Europe and, in fact,
they were rising up in power.
Now, what happens here is,
just as they're starting
to get their feet under them,
the Black Plague hits Europe.
And some of the research I've
done on this actually points
to the Black Plague
being imported to Europe.
And what happened prior
to the Black Plague is
that the European nobility
took salt away from the people.
And apparently salt
was actually quite good
for their immune system.
And if you had a populous
who did not have ready access
to salt, they became much
more available to the effects
of the plague, much more open
to the effects of the plague.
So you had an entire group
of people, an entire caste
and class of people just
absolutely wiped out.
And on the back end of that,
you have again the nobility
and the royal families of Europe
making more of a land grab,
making more of a resource grab,
Disaster Capitalism
101 right here.
Now, the next person we're
going to see here is this guy.
This is Nostradamus.
He is a Capricorn,
and Nostradamus actually cut
his teeth during the plague.
He was trained as a physician,
and he helped quite a few people
during the time of the plague
and saved a lot of lives.
He probably used salt.
But what Nostradamus was
known for more than being kind
of an angel of the plague was
obviously his predictive models.
And Capricorn does rule time
so it would make a lot of sense
that Nostradamus
would have access
into what we would call time.
He was a scrier, by the way.
He did a lot of scrying with
mirrors and reflective pools.
That was his form of geomancy.
Okay, so here we go.
Now we're in America,
Revolutionary War,
right around 1776, and we are
looking at a famous battle.
And the Americans
obviously rallied under Pluto
and Capricorn, and we wound
up setting up this country,
the United States of America,
with the sun in Cancer.
That's actually a
really important fact
because it was opposite
Pluto and Capricorn.
And Cancer has a very
different signature than Pluto
and Capricorn, actually
Capricorn in general.
Cancer represents
home and nurturing
and to some extent
family, crops, food.
It's the sign that I think
embodies this country.
When we think of the United
States, we think about people
that come here from
other places.
Just last night I was
picked up by a cab driver
who had come here from the
Sudan, and he spent most
of his life in a refugee
camp as a Lost Boy in Kenya.
And now he's here
in this country
and he's actually really happy.
He's a miracle, this guy.
And so the Cancerian quality, or
the Cancerian traits of opening
up the home and nurturing
are still very much a part
of this country.
Speaking of nurturing.
No, I'm just kidding.
This is Al Capone.
He happens to be a Capricorn.
And what we're going to see
here through the succession
of images I'm about to show
you are personality types
or archetypes of Capricorn
in mostly modern America.
There are some people in
here that aren't American.
But you'll get to
see some tendencies.
Capricorn has a drive
to be ambitious
and a drive to succeed.
And it doesn't matter what field
of endeavor it shows up in,
Capricorn will generally
over time rise to the top,
because that's the
image of the goat.
Right? The goat climbs up the
mountain and gets up there
and says, "I've made it."
Well, at one point in time,
Al Capone was at the top
of the heap in terms of the
crime syndicate in this country.
An interesting side note about
Al Capone, and we're going
to get into this when we
get to Aquarius, one of his,
I wouldn't call him a buddy, but
somebody he knew from Chicago
and he spent a lot
of time talking
with is Saul Alinsky,
an Aquarian.
And we'll talk about Mr.
Alinsky a little bit later.
But there's Al Capone,
a Capricorn.
And lo and behold, there's
his buddy, J. Edgar Hoover,
yet another Capricorn, one
of the most ambitious men
in modern American
history, rising to the top
of the FBI very, very quickly.
And who do we have
after Mr. Hoover?
Speaking of ambitious, this is
what I call the dictator cycle.
We're going to see
three different people
that represent what I would
say would be the shadow side
of Capricorn, the
absolutely negative
and toxic side of Capricorn.
This is Mao.
And Mao, of course, uses
Capricornian energies to take
over a country, an ideology, and
right now that country is poised
to take over the world.
I mean, they have incredible
amounts of resources
and they have a lot of
dollars they want to dump.
But it all starts here with
this man who is a Capricorn,
and he sets the template for
China who is on the rise now
with Pluto and Capricorn.
This is their time and it
started with Capricorn Mao.
And here's Stalin,
another Capricorn.
It makes sense, doesn't it?
And I would say that in many
ways, Stalin was more successful
in the interim than Mao was,
but certainly Mao's long-range
Capricornian effect is having
more of an impact because of
what we've seen with Russia
and going through
the reformation
of Russia and the economy.
I just wanted to give you
an example of another sort
of dictatorial Capricorn.
Here's one more here.
Here's Richard Nixon,
another Capricorn.
And Nixon, you know, very
controversial figure.
He's the guy that got us
into having the dollar
as the reserve currency
around the planet.
If you want to buy oil,
you have to use a dollar,
and it's thanks to Mr. Nixon.
Maybe his Capricornian
paranoia got the best of him
with Watergate, but he's been
the last Capricorn president
we've had.
Here's another Capricorn,
Aristotle Onassis.
Are you seeing a trend here?
I mean, these are
super powerful people.
And when we look at
them, they're not like,
they're not middling power.
These guys, they are all in.
These guys are all in.
Onassis, very controversial
figure,
connected to the Kennedy family,
connected to the
Bransmens.
Rumor has it that he was
not just bringing rum
up from South America --
that's how he met the Kennedys,
by the way -- but other things
as well, including morphine
and heroin and built
his fortune on vice
like so many other people
did in the 20th century.
So he's a Capricorn.
Ah, speaking of Capricorns,
here's Mr. Jeff Bezos,
also a Capricorn.
We're going to talk a
little bit more about him
and what he's doing in
Aquarius when we start to look
at Aquarius, emerging
technologies,
and Jeff Bezos' latest
dream.
But again, Amazon is dominating
the space and what he is?
He's a Capricorn, and he
looks like he's a Capricorn
from space though
in that picture.
Okay, here we go.
Another great Capricorn,
Mohammad Ali.
What did he do?
He dominated the ring.
And Ali to this day still has
that kind of Capricornian impact
on culture even though he can't
talk and he can barely walk.
He has Parkinson's.
And what's really
interesting about Ali is
that his greatest rival in
the ring is Joe Frazier.
Joe Frazier also happens
to be a Capricorn.
And their fights are
epically Capricorn,
like the Thrilla in Manila.
These fights went on for, you
know, 15 rounds, and, you know,
each guy just literally
pummeling the other --
two Capricorns going
at it in the ring.
This is the apex of
boxing, by the way.
And it's no doubt
or no coincidence
that it happens with
two Capricorns.
There's another Capricorn:
Martin Luther King.
When we think of civil
rights, when we think
of humanitarian figures
in the 20th century,
it's Martin Luther
King, hands down.
He rises to the top.
He's very Capricornian.
He's controversial as well.
There are people who believe
that Martin Luther King actually
stole some of his speeches.
The famous "I Have a
Dream" speech has been,
he's been accused of
plagiarizing that speech.
There are people that talk
about Martin Luther King
and his background and
not being, you know,
the saint that people
would like to portray him.
But at the end of
the day, what we have
of him is the distilled
Capricornian image of somebody
who actually died for a cause,
and that's how we'll
remember him.
Here's Elvis, another Capricorn.
And again, what do we see?
We saw somebody who rose
to the top of the charts.
He became synonymous with the
-- he wasn't a song writer,
but the icon and the archetype
of the singer at the end
of the 1950s and the beginning
of the 1960s and, of course,
he was quite wealthy
which is another potential
Capricornian trait.
Unlike some of the other
Capricorns, though,
he has a strange kind of
deference to Colonel Tom Parker.
You wouldn't normally
see that with Capricorns.
They tend to run their own ship,
but Colonel Tom Parker had kind
of an almost Svengali-like
hypnotic spell
over Mr. Elvis Presley.
Now, Elvis Presley shares his
birthday with this Capricorn.
This is David Bowie.
And David Bowie was one of
the most successful rock
and roll artists in terms
of money and capital.
He's a pretty good
businessman, Bowie.
In fact, he turned himself into
a corporation back at the end
of the '90s and started selling
shares in him and his work.
Now, I interviewed David Bowie
one time in New York City,
and we talked about
him being a Capricorn.
He told me something
really interesting.
He told me that the closer
he gets to his birthday --
he has two bumps, one
here and one here --
he says that they actually
begin to grow and tend
to protrude almost
out of his forehead
at both these little
places right over here.
There's a little bit of
David Bowie trivia for you.
Here's Patti Smith.
She's one of my favorite
Capricorns.
I think she's terrific and she,
I think Patti Smith will be
making a comeback at some point,
some point over the course of
the next five to six years.
She's already kind of started.
She did a commercial
last year for,
I think it was The
Gap or Levi's.
It was kind of strange
seeing Patti Smith get really
commercial, but love
Patti Smith.
She's a Capricorn.
I had to put her in there.
Here's another Capricorn.
Now, Betty White is
interesting because part
of this whole notion of
Capricorn is that they tend
to get, they tend to get
younger as they get older.
And Betty White obviously
is a living,
breathing example of that.
If you've seen the
movie "The Curious Case
of Benjamin Button,"
that's actually a
meditation on Capricorn.
Right? I mean, he starts
off being born as an old man
and as he goes through this arc,
and by the time he's at the end
of his life, he's a baby again.
That's actually Capricorn
in action.
So Betty White, flashing the
Capricorn genes right there.
Okay, so we're going
to talk right here.
We're going to stop
just for a little bit.
We're going to get into these
people, and we're going to shift
into Cancer, because Cancer,
the sign Cancer is, I think,
really prominent right now.
We're going to talk about it
in terms of American culture.
But to understand why it's
important, we have to go back
to 2008, 2009, because
that's when Pluto moves
from Sagittarius into
the sign of Capricorn.
That's when it's at its
most potent, zero degrees.
And that's this very
strange time
between Obama and George Bush.
And what happened, of course,
obviously in October 2008,
the company -- or company; the
company of the United States --
the country went belly-up, and
it was convenient in that it was
in that strange inter-zone
between presidents
where nobody was theoretically
responsible for it.
The people running the country
at that time were Ben
Bernanke and Hank Paulson.
And everybody can
remember it clear as day.
We, you know, the country
was theoretically bankrupt
and people were dialing in.
They were burning up
the lines in Washington.
They were, you know, desperately
trying to get these guys not
to bail out Wall Street.
I mean, it was a big deal.
In fact, they made such an
impact on the congressmen
and the senators, that
they actually voted once,
and they rejected what was
the initial TARP bailout bill.
That's how terrified
Congress and the Senate were
of the people during that time.
And then Bernanke and Paulson
got behind closed doors
and the rumor is they said,
"Unless you vote for this,
unless you vote for
this, there is going
to be martial law in America."
And so they voted for it and
then we had TARP as a result.
Now, immediately,
almost immediately businesses
started getting bailed
out right and left.
You had AIG, there was
GM, there was IndyMac,
although I don't think
IndyMac got bailed out.
But we saw Freddie Mac and --
I always get them mixed up,
the mortgage and loan.
Anyway, they got
bailed out immediately,
and we saw this fusion
between government
and the corporations
during that time.
And that was the shot across
the bow for Pluto and Capricorn.
And that sort of morphing
became the corpocratic system
that we're all kind of trying
to figure out right now.
It's like Obamacare is
this beast that's part,
it's part government and
it's part corporation.
They're trying to bolt this
Frankenstein monster together,
and it's happening under
Pluto and Capricorn.
They're not having a real
successful time with it.
Now, almost immediately what
happened is you had a backlash
against this type of
titanic and monolithic fusion
of these two entities, and
what we've seen as a result
of this is this kind of
Cancerian undercurrent beginning
to flow through the country.
And it starts really, I
think, with this show as kind
of an outward manifestation
of this.
This is American Pickers, and
these guys are from the Midwest
and that's about as
Cancerian as it gets.
And they go around to all
these different locations
and what they do is
they find odds and ends.
You've probably seen the show.
They find these odds and ends,
these strange little antiques,
these, you know, these
diamonds in the rough.
And they buy them for one price
and they resell them
for another.
That's a very Cancerian kind
of activity, by the way,
because Cancer is always
looking to the past.
Capricorn looks towards
the future;
Cancer looks to the past.
So these guys
are resurrecting the past.
This is a very Cancerian
operation with American Pickers.
Even the name American
Pickers resonates
with the whole
Cancerian/American vibration.
So let's go on to
the next slide.
And here we have Moonshiners,
yet another kind of Cancerian,
folksy depiction
of rural Americana.
And what are these guys doing?
They're making moonshine.
They're making liquid.
Cancer is a water sign.
You know, this is
very homegrown.
This is very homespun.
And these guys typify
and embody this kind
of Cancerian spirit
in a Mason jar.
That's a funny name for
that, isn't it, a Mason jar?
Anyway, a very successful show,
and it translates really well
to again this undercurrent,
this folksy undercurrent
that people are taking part
in, that's almost like a,
I would say, a subconscious
backlash in some ways
to this Pluto and
Capricornian sort of tyranny
that we're being forced to
deal with on a daily basis.
Now, this next slide is --
these are the Duck Dynasty guys.
And this, these guys, to me,
typify this Cancerian spirit.
Why? It's all family, it's
all, it's a family business,
they honor family, their
wives cook for them.
Very traditional.
This is not some kind of
Capricornian, bathometric kind
of assemblage of
the family matrix.
This is in many ways a very
strong and rural depiction
of America, the Cancerian
America.
Now, Duck Dynasty this
season, the opening episode
for Duck Dynasty this season
was the most popular show
in the history of cable TV.
So while we're dealing
with again these oligarchic
structures that are trying
to impress themselves upon us,
what's happening as a result
of this is we're
having this infusion
of this Cancerian culture that's
taking place underneath all
of it.
And together there's
this dynamism of change
and transformation that's taking
place all around us right now.
Now, I decided to bring
Ron Paul into this.
I used to be a kind
of a Ron Paul guy,
although I basically changed
my mind at some point in 2008.
And I brought him up here
because he essentially rises
to the surface of public
consciousness right
around the time Pluto and
Capricorn comes into effect.
He's talking about
the Federal Reserve.
being conservative.
He's talking about not spending.
These are, again, all
very Cancerian traits.
Right? Cancer, they
are into saving.
They are into conserving;
whereas Pluto and Capricorn
or Capricorn in general loves
banking, loves to borrow,
loves to use the money, loves
to borrow money to make money,
and Ron Paul was not that.
And he became, again,
popular during that time,
and he kicks off the Tea
Party, for better or worse,
which is again kind of this
fifth column, sort of, you know,
running against this Pluto and
Capricornian sort of tyranny
and corpocratic matrix.
So that's essentially, you
know, the run-through with Pluto
and Capricorn and
where we are right now.
Obamacare is teetering.
It's tottering.
It's off the wheels.
It will be interesting
to see what happens
and how corporate
America comes in
and probably will save the day
with Obamacare whether
you like it or not.
It will be more corporate
and less government.
And it won't really look like
what it is or what we're trying
to experience right now.
But it will continue to evolve
and mutate and actually be more
like a business probably
over the course
of the next couple years.
We've got two squares with Pluto
and Uranus coming up next year.
And whenever we get
into these squares,
what are we dealing with?
Uranus in Aries is the
spirit of the individual.
You know, we could look
at the color revolutions
and say they might have been
a manifestation of Uranus
and Aries and it's always
up against this Pluto
and Capricornian force
which essentially wants
to bring people into one
umbrella, one model, one order.
Okay, well, that's it
for today's episode
of The Eleventh House
-- Pluto and Capricorn.
I hope you enjoyed it.
This is Robert Phoenix, and
join me on the next episode
where we get into Aquarius,
the spirit of Aquarius
and the rebellious
nature of Aquarius.
Thanks again.
[ Music ]